hi I'm Wendy from shiny happy world I've
done a video showing you the basic
technique for an easy machine appliqué
the video that I did the introductory
video was really just covering how to do
simple convex curves what I'm going to
show you today is what to do when two of
those convex curves come together into
an inside point it's really really easy
what we have here is a really simple
hippopotamus face for a quilt block that
I'm making and you can see here that
I've got a convex curve coming in here
and a different curve coming in here and
they're meeting at this point and that's
what I'm going to show you how to handle
today so I'm gonna flip it over I've got
the freezer paper it slides to the back
just like for the regular technique and
you can see where the problem is going
to be we wrap this excess fabric around
and it's not going to go into that point
so it's really really easy what we need
to do let the camera zoom in we just
need to cut a snip in there and the
trick is not to be shy about it you
really want to cut right up to that edge
maybe leave one or two threads there but
you really want to cut right up to it
because you need that fabric to be able
to spread out so it'll go right into the
point from both directions and this is
the problem that most beginners have is
they're really nervous about cutting
right up to the edge because you don't
want any fraying to happen don't be shy
just snip right in there and then let me
show you well press that
do the rest of that when I'm not worried
about getting in front of the camera
then I can flip this over now and show
that point to you if you're really
worried about any fraying happening at
that point there's a product called fray
check that you can use and you can just
put a single drop there and it'll
protect that edge but I have never had
any problems with things fraying out of
those inside corners so that's it it's
really really easy you just need to snip
once into those inside corners and the
real trick to it is don't be shy cut
right up to the edge of the paper and
you'll be able to press a really nice
neat inside point I'm Wendy from shiny
happy world I'll see you next time